SUMMARY 
Results-driven Computer Science graduate with hands-on experience in machine learning, data engineering, and full-stack development. Skilled in 
building scalable end-to-end ML pipelines, data analytics dashboards, and AI-driven applications. AWS Certified and well versed with big data and tools 
like Apache Airflow, Kafka, and Spark. Experienced in both research and fast-paced startup environments. Passionate about leveraging data and machine 
learning to build impactful software. 

EDUCATION 
Rutgers University                 May 2026
Master of Science in Data Science	
Rutgers University        	       May 2025
Bachelor of Science in Computer Science + Computational and Applied Mathematics
GPA: 3.8/4.0, Awarded with Philadelphia Philanthropic Society for Information Management Foundation Inc. (PHISIM) Award for Academic Excellence, and Chancellor’s Merit Scholarship. Dean’s List in all Semesters.	

TECHNICAL SKILLS 
Programming Languages	Python, Java, Javascript, Typescript, C, C++
Databases	MySQL, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, AWS Redshift, AWS DynamoDB
Data Engineering & Devops	Apache Airflow, Apache Kafka, Apache Spark, PySpark, Docker, Kubernetes, Hadoop, Map Reduce
Machine Learning & Data Science	Scikit-learn, Tensorflow, Keras, Numpy, Pandas, Pytorch, MLFlow, AWS Sagemaker
Web & Full Stack Development	Next.js, React.js, Node.js, Spring Boot, Flask, FastAPI, REST API, JSON
Certifications	AWS Certified AI Practitioner

WORK EXPERIENCE 
Rutgers University MLBC Lab	Camden, NJ
Machine Learning Engineer                                                                                                                                            December 2024 – May 2025
•	Achieved 94% accuracy in classifying Heat Shock Proteins by implementing a Multiple Convolutional Neural Network (MulCNN), leading to improved sequence classification.
•	Optimized model training workflows by implementing a data ingestion and preprocessing pipeline, transforming over 12,000 protein sequences from FASTA files into structured dataframes.
•	Fine-tuned the TinyLlama llm using Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA), to benchmark against the MulCNN and improve model performance.
Independence Education                                                                                                                                                                    Philadelphia, PA
Software Development Intern	August 2023 - January 2024
•	Developed a chatbot prototype using the GPT-3.5-turbo model and langchain, integrating a Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) architecture for enhanced accuracy and contextual relevance, which improved user engagement and support efficiency.
•	Built a data analytics dashboard that links to the Canvas student software, leveraging technologies such as TypeScript, React.js, Chart.js, PostgreSQL, and Node.js to provide actionable insights, enhancing data-driven decision making.


PROJECTS 
Driver Drowsiness Detection System
•	Achieved 90% drowsiness detection accuracy by fine-tuning a YOLOv8 model to detect drowsiness based on facial expressions.
•	Processed video frames through a live camera feed and performed real-time inferencing using Kafka and Spark Streaming, ensuring immediate phone alerts through WhatsApp notifications, if drowsiness is detected.
•	Reduced the false positive rate by 40% through a retraining pipeline, where misclassified images get reported via AWS Lambda, get stored in a S3 bucket, and used for model retraining with Apache Airflow.
Modalytics: Machine Learning Model Evaluation Platform
•	Created an end-to-end Machine Learning Model Evaluation Pipeline integrating AWS Lambda, S3, DynamoDB.
•	Produced a dashboard containing model performance metrics to show model improvements over time.
•	Reduced model evaluation time by automated testing and performance evaluation, by deploying python evaluation scripts to AWS Lambda via Docker containers and saving evaluation metrics to DynamoDB.
AI Job Board
•	Developed an AI-driven Job Board leveraging data from US Bureau of Labor Statistics to provide actionable career insights such as skill gap between required skills and the user’s skills, susceptibility towards being replaced by AI, and market demand. 
•	Integrated a salary prediction model with over 85% accuracy using Random Forest Regression and a user-based collaborative filtering recommendation system powered by cosine similarity, enhancing user suggestions by 30%.
•	Generated an interactive dashboard with the streamlit and plotly libraries, to visualize key trends such as salary projections, high-demand skills, growing and declining industry sectors, enabling users to make data-informed decisions.

Atharv Patwardhan's diverse experience and technical expertise make him a valuable asset in the field of software development, capable of tackling complex challenges and delivering high-quality solutions.

Extra Info
When Atharv is not coding, he enjoys playing Badminton, Chess and also has a liking for painting and music.

Atharv lives in New Jersey,USA.

Atharv's favourite color is red.

Atharv is 21 years old.

Link to Atharv's Linkedin Profile: https://www.linkedin.com/in/atharv-patwardhan/

Link to Atharv's Github Profile: https://github.com/atharvpatwardhan
